---
layout: post
title: DIY Nuclear Bomb
date: 2007-05-05 21:33:03
tags: [satire,censorship]
image: /img/nukebomb.jpg
comments: true
draft: false
---

Adapted from an archive of an article by Mike Schmitt in 1996:

  1. First, obtain about 50 pounds (110 kg) of weapons grade Plutonium at your local supplier. A nuclear power plant is not recommended, as large quantities of missing Plutonium tends to make plant engineers unhappy. I suggest that you contact your local terrorist organization, or perhaps the Junior Achievement in your neighborhood.

  2. Please remember that Plutonium, especially pure, refined Plutonium, is somewhat dangerous. Wash your hands with soap and warm water after handling the material, and don't allow your children or pets to play in it or eat it. Any left over Plutonium dust is excellent as an insect repellent. You may wish to keep the substance in a lead box if you can find one in your local junk yard, but an old coffee can will do nicely.

  3. Fashion together a metal enclosure to house the device. Most common varieties of sheet metal can be bent to disguise this enclosure as, for example, a briefcase; a lunch pail; or a Buick. Do not use tinfoil.

  4. Arrange the Plutonium into two hemispherical shapes, separated by about 4 cm. Use rubber cement to hold the Plutonium dust together.

  5. Now get about 100 pounds (220 kg) of trinitrotoluene (TNT). Gelignite is much better, but messier to work with. Your helpful hardware man will be happy to provide you with this item.

  6. Pack the TNT around the hemisphere arrangement constructed in step 4. If you cannot find Gelignite, feell free to use TNT packed in with "Play-Dough" or any modelling clay. Colored clay is acceptable, but there is no need to get fancy at this point.

  7. Enclose the structure from step 6 into the enclosure made in step 3. Use a strong glue such as "Crazy Glue" to bind the hemisphere arrangement against the enclosure to prevent accidental detonation which might result from vibration or mishandling.

  8. To detonate the device, obtain a radio controlled (RC) servo mechanism, as found in RC model airplanes and cars. With a modicum of effort, a remote plunger can be made that will strike a detonator cap to effect a small explosion. These detonator caps can be found in the electrical supply section of your local supermarket. I recommend the "Blast-O-Mactic" brand because they are "no deposit, no return".

  9. Now hide the completed device from the neighbors and children. The garage is not recommended because of high humidity and the extreme range of temperatures experienced there. Nuclear devices have been known to spontaneously detonate in these unstable conditions, causing nearby cities to become quite upset with the radiation blowing in their direction. The hall closet or under the kitchen sink will be perfectly suitable.

  10. Now you are the proud owner of a working thermonuclear device! It is a great ice-breaker at parties, and in a pinch, can be used for national defence.
